Allow maintainers to have admin rights if requested (#1311)
open-telemetry/community: docs/how-to-configure-new-repository.md

one will fork the repository - fork's name will still indicate that this
repository is from OpenTelemetry organization.

## Repository settings

### General

Everything not mentioned is left at the GitHub default.

* Merging pull requests
  * Allow merge commits: `unchecked`
  * Allow squash merging: :heavy_check_mark:
  * Allow rebase merging: `unchecked`
  * (only allowing squash merging to ensure a clean history)
* Automatically delete head branches: :heavy_check_mark:
  * (so that merged branches are not left lying around)

### Collaborators and Teams

* Every repository has three teams associated with it. Typically for the
  repository `opentelemetry-foo` they will be named `foo-triagers`, `foo-approvers`,
  and `foo-maintainers`. `foo-maintainers` is a child of `foo-approvers`, and

>   `foo-approvers` is a child of `foo-triagers`, as it each group always contains

Reviewer: > as it each group always contains

typo?

[enable the check for the repo](https://project.lfcla.com/#/project/a0941000002wBz4AAE/cla).
Check with the OpenTelemetry's [EasyCLA admins](../assets.md#easy-cla).

## Policies
## CODEOWNERS

Typically `main` branch is set as default. And protected with the following
policies:

1. Enable `Require pull request reviews before merging` setting. Make sure
   `Require review from Code Owners` is checked.
2. The default setting for `Required approving reviews` is `1` approval. Individual 
   repositores may opt-in for bigger number of required reviews.
3. Every repo MUST enforce the CNCF `EasyCLA` check under the
   `Require status checks to pass before merging` section. (if the check isn't
   showing, have a CLA manager [enable the check for the
   repo](https://project.lfcla.com/#/project/a0941000002wBz4AAE/cla)). Check
   with the OpenTelemetry's [EasyCLA admins](../assets.md#user-content-opentelemetry-managed-assets:~:text=Easy%20CLA) 
4. It is a good practice to check the `Include administrators` setting.
5. Repository MUST enforce `Restrict who can push to matching branches` setting
   to only allow the members of `foo-maintainers` to push to the `main`
   branch.

> ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/9950081/57563714-c5d51000-7355-11e9-80c8-68374e2de2f6.png)

Author: I removed this image because it was very outdated and "Require branches to be up to date before merging" was the only thing that wasn't already in the text, so I added that to the text (as optional with default true)

1. Every repository has three teams associated with it. Typically for the
   repository `opentelemetry-foo` they will be named `foo-triagers`, `foo-approvers`,

>    and `foo-maintainers`. `foo-maintainers` is a child of `foo-approvers`, and

Reviewer: Does "child" mean a subset? Could we say a subset?

Author: github calls them [child teams](https://docs.github.com/en/organizations/organizing-members-into-teams/requesting-to-add-a-child-team), though I always have to think twice about which is the parent and which is the child

maybe instead something like?

```suggestion
   and `foo-maintainers`. `foo-maintainers` team is a member of the `foo-approvers` team, and
```

Author: I re-wrote this section a bit to make it clearer

   `foo-approvers` is a child of `foo-triagers`, as it each group always contains
   a subset of people and defines a larger scope of privileges.
2. Every member of `foo-maintainers` should be included in
   `foo-approvers` and `foo-triagers` explicitly, with the "Maintainer" GitHub
   privileges. This allows repository maintainers to invite new approvers and
   triagers to the team.
3. The team `foo-triagers` has `Triage` permissions for the repository. If repository
   is using the Project Boards, `foo-triagers` should have `Write` permissions to
   have access to the Project Boards. Note, by not adding members of `foo-triagers` to
   CODEOWNERS file, repository restricts triagers from counting a triagers approvals for
   PRs. See the [Policies](#policies) section that suggest to ensure that `Require
   review from Code Owners` is checked.

> ## Repository settings

Reviewer: I am not sure that adding a new file is beneficial here. The previous section is called "Permissions", yet doesn't mention the actual permissions and does not refer to the new file. And conceptually there's no difference between "how to configure new repo" and "default repo settings" to warrant a 2nd file.

Author: the second file was requested by @dyladan https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/pull/1311#issuecomment-1335733993

> I think we should have in this repo the same file but which documents all the default settings a repo is expected to have. That way you can only document the deviations in your repository and link to here for anyone that wants to know the other settings but doesn't have permission to view them.
>
> edit: it would also help with setting up repositories and auditing the settings of existing repositories.

I would defer to you and other @open-telemetry/technical-committee folks for whatever is most convenient since you are setting up the repos.

Author: @yurishkuro I removed the new file in a different branch to see what it looks like, is this what you were imagining:

https://github.com/trask/community/blob/admin-rights-inlined/docs/how-to-configure-new-repository.md

Reviewer: @trask yep, looks great in one file, thanks!
